[WIP] Rewrite the dashboard documentation (#32854)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/ray-core/ray-dashboard.rst

- :ref:`View the hardware utilization (CPU, GPU, memory) <dash-workflow-resource-utilization>` so that you can compare it to Ray's logical resource usages.
- :ref:`See the progress of your job <dash-workflow-job-progress>`.
- :ref:`Find the logs or error messages of failed tasks or actors <dash-workflow-failed-tasks>`.
- :ref:`Profile, trace dump, and visualize the timeline of the Ray jobs, tasks, or actors <dashboard-profiling>`.
- :ref:`Analyze the CPU and memory usage of the cluster, tasks and actors <dash-workflow-cpu-memory-analysis>`.
- :ref:`See individual state of task, actor, placement group <dash-workflow-state-apis>`, and :ref:`nodes (machines) <dash-node-view>` which is equivalent to :ref:`Ray state APIs <state-api-overview-ref>`.

Getting Started
---------------

To use the dashboard, you should use the `ray[default]` installation:

.. code-block:: bash

  pip install -U "ray[default]"

You can access the dashboard through a URL printed when Ray is initialized (the default URL is **http://localhost:8265**) or via the context object returned from `ray.init`.

> .. tabbed:: Python SDK

Reviewer: Are there other options? If not, don't need a tab?

    .. code-block:: python

        context = ray.init()
        print(context.dashboard_url)

.. code-block:: text

  INFO worker.py:1487 -- Connected to Ray cluster. View the dashboard at 127.0.0.1:8265.

> The dashboard is also available :ref:`when using the cluster launcher <monitor-cluster>`.

Reviewer: Does it mean it's not available if people use KubeRay?
We should tell people to install and set up dashboard in all scenarios together:
- local laptop
- cluster launcher
- kubeRay

  Ray dashboard has a tight integration with them, and core features (e.g., :ref:`Metrics View <dash-metrics-view>`) wouldn't work without them.

See :ref:`Ray Metrics <ray-metrics>` to learn how to set up Prometheus and Grafana.

If you prefer to explicitly set the port on which the dashboard will run, you can pass
the ``--dashboard-port`` argument with ``ray start`` in the command line, or you can pass the
keyword argument ``dashboard_port`` in your call to ``ray.init()``.

How to Guide
------------

.. _dash-workflow-critial-system-metrics:

See the system metrics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Ray exports metrics by default. Metrics are available from the :ref:`Metrics View <dash-metrics-view>`. Here are some example metrics that are available.

- The tasks, actors, and placement group broken down by states.
- The :ref:`logical resource usage <logical-resources>` across nodes.
- The hardware resource usage across nodes.
- The autoscaler status.

See :ref:`System Metrics Page <system-metrics>` for available metrics.

.. _dash-workflow-resource-utilization:

Comparing the hardware and logical resource utilization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Ray requires users to specify the amount of resources their tasks and actors will use through arguments such as ``num_cpus``, ``num_gpus``, ``memory``, and ``resource``. 

Reviewer: We should add a link to https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/ray-core/scheduling/resources.html somewhere

These values are used for scheduling, but may not always match the actual resource utilization. 
You can check the :ref:`Metrics View <dash-metrics-view>` to compare logical and hardware resource utilization. 

Let's see an example.

.. code-block:: python

    @ray.remote(num_cpus=1)
    def task():
        import time
        time.sleep(30)
    
    # Launch 30 tasks
    ray.get([task.remote() for _ in range(30)])

When you run the below code that executes many tasks that sleeps, 
you will see from the metrics page that there are many logical CPU allocations but little to no hardware CPU usage.
It is because the logical resource requirement is 1 CPU for each task, but each task uses nearly no CPU because it just sleeps.

TODO-SANG Add images

> In this case, resource specification for those tasks is incorrect. 

Reviewer 2: Should we say why it's important for logical CPU to match the expected hardware utilization?

Actually, is it important for those to match?

Reviewer: Instead of "incorrect", maybe explain the impact of this. 
Something like: "resource specification for those tasks will lead to wasted physical resources. To address this issue, let’s adjust the num_cpus value to 0.1 so that other tasks or actors can be scheduled to leverage the hardware."

To address this issue, let's adjust the num_cpus value to 0.1.

.. code-block:: python

    @ray.remote(num_cpus=0.1)
    def task():
        import time
        time.sleep(30)

.. _dash-workflow-failed-tasks:

> Find the erorr messages or logs of the failed tasks/actors

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Find the error messages or logs of the failed tasks/actors
```

Also, we should add a section for viewing the driver logs of a job. For jobs submitted by `ray job submit` we capture them, for driver jobs, users need to look at their console output.

Reviewer: +1 to showing "how to view application logs"

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The job page allows you to see tasks and actors broken down by their states. 
Tasks and actors are grouped and nested by default. You can see the nested entries by clicking the expand button.

Tasks/actors are grouped and nested by the following criteria.

- All tasks and actors are grouped together, and you can view individual entries by expanding the corresponding row.
- Tasks are grouped by their ``name`` attribute (e.g., ``task.options(name="<name_here>").remote()``).
- Child tasks (nested tasks) are nested under their parent task's row.
- Actors are grouped by their class name.
- Child actors (actors created within an actor) are nested under their parent actor's row.
- Actor tasks (remote methods within an actor) are nested under the actor for the corresponding actor method.

TODO-SANG Add images

.. note:: 

  Ray dashboard can only display/retrieves up to 10K tasks at a time. If there are more than 10K tasks from your job,
  they are unaccounted. The number of unaccounted tasks are available from the task breakdown.

Task Timeline
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :ref:`timeline API <ray-core-timeline>` is available from the dashboard. 

> You can download the chrome tracing file by clicking the download button. You can either go to ``chrome://tracing`` or the `Perfetto UI <https://ui.perfetto.dev/>`_ and drop the downloaded chrome tracing file to see the timeline visualization of Ray tasks and actors.

Reviewer: You can use tools like ``chrome://tracing`` or the `Perfetto UI <https://ui.perfetto.dev/>` and ...

TODO-SANG Add images

Ray Status
~~~~~~~~~~

The job page displays the output of the helpful CLI tool ray status, which shows the autoscaler status of the Ray cluster.

The left page shows the autoscaling status, including pending, active, and failed nodes. 
The right page displays the cluster's demands, which lists demanded resources that cannot be scheduled to the cluster at the moment. This page is useful for debugging resource deadlocks or slow scheduling.

TODO-SANG Add images

.. note:: 

  The output shows the aggregated information across the cluster. If you run more than on job, the demands could be wrong.

.. _dash-workflow-state-apis:  

Task Table, Actor Table, Placement Group Table
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The dashboard shows a table with the status of the job's tasks, actors, and placement groups. 
This information is the same as what you would get from the :ref:`Ray state APIs <state-api-overview-ref>`.

.. _dash-node-view:

Cluster View
------------

The cluster view visualizes hierarchical relationship of
machines (nodes) and workers (processes). Each host consists of many workers, and

> you can see them by clicking the + button. This also shows the assignment of GPU resources to specific actors or tasks.

Reviewer: Do we currently show "assignment of GPU resources to specific actors or tasks."?

Author: It is supported now

> you can see them by clicking the + button. This also shows the assignment of GPU resources to specific actors or tasks.
> 
> You can hide it again by clicking the - button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you can see them by clicking the + button. This also shows the assignment of GPU resources to specific actors or tasks.
```

- :ref:`Profile, trace dump, and visualize the timeline of the Ray jobs, tasks, or actors <dashboard-profiling>`.
- :ref:`Analyze the CPU and memory usage of the cluster, tasks and actors <dash-workflow-cpu-memory-analysis>`.
- :ref:`See individual state of task, actor, placement group <dash-workflow-state-apis>`, and :ref:`nodes (machines) <dash-node-view>` which is equivalent to :ref:`Ray state APIs <state-api-overview-ref>`.
- :ref:`View the hardware utilization (CPU, GPU, memory) <dash-workflow-resource-utilization>` so that you can compare it to Ray's logical resource usages.

Getting Started
---------------

To use the dashboard, you should use the `ray[default]` installation:

.. code-block:: bash

  pip install -U "ray[default]"

You can access the dashboard through a URL printed when Ray is initialized (the default URL is **http://localhost:8265**) or via the context object returned from `ray.init`.

.. code-block:: python

    context = ray.init()
    print(context.dashboard_url)

.. code-block:: text

  INFO worker.py:1487 -- Connected to Ray cluster. View the dashboard at 127.0.0.1:8265.

> Ray cluster comes with the dashboard. See :ref:`Cluster Monitoring <monitor-cluster>` for more details.

Reviewer: Should "cluster monitoring" link to this page instead? .../cluster/running-applications/monitoring-and-observability.html#monitoring-the-cluster-via-the-dashboard

Currently, it points to a page under vm clusters

.. note:: 

  When using the Ray dashboard, it is highly recommended to also set up Prometheus and Grafana. 
  Ray dashboard has a tight integration with these tools, and core features such as :ref:`Metrics View <dash-metrics-view>` won't work without them.

See :ref:`Ray Metrics <ray-metrics>` to learn how to set up Prometheus and Grafana.

If you need to customize the port on which the dashboard will run, you can pass
the ``--dashboard-port`` argument with ``ray start`` in the command line, or you can pass the

> keyword argument ``dashboard_port`` in your call to ``ray.init()``.

Reviewer: There are two issues:
1. The ways to customize the ports on VM cluster and [KubeRay](https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/cluster/kubernetes/user-guides/config.html#specifying-non-default-ports) clusters are different. Maybe we should link users to the cluster page where we list hwo to customize the ports in different ways.

2. This only works when you create a single-node ray cluster (when there is no existing ray cluster on the machine)?

> or you can pass the keyword argument ``dashboard_port`` in your call to ``ray.init()``

Ray requires users to specify the number of :ref:`resources <logical-resources>` their tasks and actors will use through arguments such as ``num_cpus``, ``num_gpus``, ``memory``, and ``resource``. 
These values are used for scheduling, but may not always match the actual resource utilization. 

If the logical resources don't match the physical resource usage, it can lead to the under-utilization of the cluster because the number of tasks and actors are throttled by
the logical resource requirements.

You can check the :ref:`Metrics View <dash-metrics-view>` to compare logical and hardware resource utilization. 

Let's see an example.

.. code-block:: python

    @ray.remote(num_cpus=1)
    def task():
        import time
        time.sleep(30)
    
    # Launch 30 tasks
    ray.get([task.remote() for _ in range(30)])

When you run the below code that executes many tasks that sleep, 
you will see from the metrics page that there are many logical CPU allocations but little to no hardware CPU usage.
It is because the logical resource requirement is 1 CPU for each task, but each task uses nearly no CPU because it just sleeps.

TODO-SANG Add images

> resource specification for those tasks will lead to wasted physical resources. To address this issue, let's adjust the ``num_cpus`` value to 0.1 so that other tasks or actors can be scheduled to leverage the hardware resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resource specification for those tasks will lead to wasted physical resources. To address this issue, let's adjust the ``num_cpus`` value to 0.1 so that other tasks or actors can be scheduled to leverage the hardware resources.
```

.. code-block:: python

    @ray.remote(num_cpus=0.1)
    def task():
        import time
        time.sleep(30)

.. _dash-workflow-logs:

View the application logs and errors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> **Driver Logs**
> If the Ray job is submitted by :ref:`Ray job API <jobs-quickstart>`, the job logs are available from the dashboard. The log file follows the following format; ``job-driver-<job_submission_id>.log``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Driver Logs**

If the Ray job is submitted by :ref:`Ray job API <jobs-quickstart>`, the job logs are available from the dashboard. The log file follows the following format; ``job-driver-<job_submission_id>.log``.
```

.. note:: 

>   If the driver is executed directly at the Ray cluster (without the job API), the driver logs are not accessible from the dashboard. In this case, see the terminal output to view the driver logs.

Reviewer: "If the driver is executed directly on the head node of the Ray cluster (without the job API) or run via Ray client"
How about this?

TODO-SANG Show the log button at the job row.

> **Task and Actor Logs**
> Task and actor logs are accessible from the :ref:`task and actor table view <dash-workflow-state-apis>`. Click the log button.
> You can see the worker logs that execute the task and actor. ``.out`` (stdout) and ``.err`` (stderr) logs contain the logs emitted from the tasks and actors. The core worker logs contains the system-level logs for the corresponding worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Task and Actor Logs**

Task and actor logs are accessible from the :ref:`task and actor table view <dash-workflow-state-apis>`. Click the log button.
You can see the worker logs that execute the task and actor. ``.out`` (stdout) and ``.err`` (stderr) logs contain the logs emitted from the tasks and actors. The core worker logs contains the system-level logs for the corresponding worker.
```

> You can see the worker logs that execute the task and actor. ``.out`` (stdout) and ``.err`` (stderr) logs contain the logs emitted from the tasks and actors. The core worker logs contains the system-level logs for the corresponding worker.

Reviewer: "You can see the worker logs (`worker-...`) that execute ..."

"Usually, you don't need to look at core worker log files (`python-core-worker-...`) since they store system-level logs."

How about these two changes?

SANG-TODO Add an image.

> **Task and Actor Errors**
> You can easily identify failed tasks or actors by looking at the job progress bar, which links to the table. 
> The table displays the name of the failed tasks or actors and provides access to their corresponding log or error messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Task and Actor Errors**

You can easily identify failed tasks or actors by looking at the job progress bar, which links to the table. 
The table displays the name of the failed tasks or actors and provides access to their corresponding log or error messages.
```

- Tasks are grouped by their ``name`` attribute (e.g., ``task.options(name="<name_here>").remote()``).
- Child tasks (nested tasks) are nested under their parent task's row.
- Actors are grouped by their class name.
- Child actors (actors created within an actor) are nested under their parent actor's row.
- Actor tasks (remote methods within an actor) are nested under the actor for the corresponding actor method.

TODO-SANG Add images

.. note:: 

  Ray dashboard can only display/retrieves up to 10K tasks at a time. If there are more than 10K tasks from your job,
  they are unaccounted. The number of unaccounted tasks are available from the task breakdown.

Task Timeline
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :ref:`timeline API <ray-core-timeline>` is available from the dashboard. 
You can download the chrome tracing file by clicking the download button. You can use tools like ``chrome://tracing`` or the `Perfetto UI <https://ui.perfetto.dev/>`_ and drop the downloaded chrome tracing file to see the timeline visualization of Ray tasks and actors.

TODO-SANG Add images

Ray Status
~~~~~~~~~~

> The job page displays the output of the helpful CLI tool ray status, which shows the autoscaler status of the Ray cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The job page displays the output of the helpful CLI tool ``ray status``, which shows the autoscaler status of the Ray cluster.
```

The dashboard provides a visual representation of the system state, allowing users to track the performance 
of their applications and troubleshoot issues.

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/overview_gif.gif
    :align: center

Common Workflows
----------------

Here are common workflows when using the Ray dashboard.

> - :ref:`See the metrics graphs <dash-metrics-view>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- :ref:`View the metrics graphs <dash-metrics-view>`.
```

> - :ref:`See the progress of your job <dash-workflow-job-progress>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- :ref:`View the progress of your job <dash-workflow-job-progress>`.
```

- :ref:`Find the application logs or error messages of failed tasks or actors <dash-workflow-logs>`.
- :ref:`Profile, trace dump, and visualize the timeline of the Ray jobs, tasks, or actors <dashboard-profiling>`.
- :ref:`Analyze the CPU and memory usage of the cluster, tasks and actors <dash-workflow-cpu-memory-analysis>`.

> - :ref:`See individual state of task, actor, placement group <dash-workflow-state-apis>`, and :ref:`nodes (machines from a cluster) <dash-node-view>` which is equivalent to :ref:`Ray state APIs <state-api-overview-ref>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- :ref:`View the individual state of a task, actor, placement group <dash-workflow-state-apis>`, and :ref:`nodes (machines from a cluster) <dash-node-view>`, which is equivalent to :ref:`Ray state APIs <state-api-overview-ref>`.
```

- :ref:`View the hardware utilization (CPU, GPU, memory) <dash-workflow-resource-utilization>`.

Getting Started
---------------

To use the dashboard, you should use the `ray[default]` installation:

.. code-block:: bash

  pip install -U "ray[default]"

You can access the dashboard through a URL printed when Ray is initialized (the default URL is **http://localhost:8265**) or via the context object returned from `ray.init`.

.. code-block:: python

    context = ray.init()
    print(context.dashboard_url)

.. code-block:: text

  INFO worker.py:1487 -- Connected to Ray cluster. View the dashboard at 127.0.0.1:8265.

Ray cluster comes with the dashboard. See :ref:`Cluster Monitoring <monitor-cluster-via-dashboard>` for more details.

.. note:: 

  When using the Ray dashboard, it is highly recommended to also set up Prometheus and Grafana. 

>   Ray dashboard has a tight integration with these tools, and core features such as :ref:`Metrics View <dash-metrics-view>` won't work without them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Ray dashboard has a tight integration with these tools, and core features such as :ref:`Metrics View <dash-metrics-view>` are necessary.
```

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/task_error_button.png
    :align: center

The table displays the name of the failed tasks or actors and provides access to their corresponding log or error messages.

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/task_error_box.png
    :align: center

.. _dash-workflow-cpu-memory-analysis:

Analyze the CPU and memory usage of tasks and actors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :ref:`Metrics View <dash-metrics-view>` in the Ray dashboard provides a "per-component CPU/memory usage graph" that displays CPU and memory usage over time for each task and actor in the application (as well as system components). 
This allows users to identify tasks and actors that may be consuming more resources than expected and optimize the performance of the application. 

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/node_cpu_by_comp.png
    :align: center

> Per component CPU graph. 0.379 cores mean that it uses 40% of a single CPU core. If the name starts with ``ray::``, that's the name of the Ray processes. ``raylet``, ``agent``, ``dashboard``, ``gcs`` mean the system components.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Per component CPU graph. 0.379 cores mean that it uses 40% of a single CPU core. Ray process names start with ``ray::``. ``raylet``, ``agent``, ``dashboard``, or ``gcs`` are system components.
```

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/node_memory_by_comp.png
    :align: center

> Per component memory graph. If the name starts with ``ray::``, that's the name of the Ray processes. ``raylet``, ``agent``, ``dashboard``, ``gcs`` mean the system components.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Per component memory graph. Ray process names start with ``ray::``. ``raylet``, ``agent``, ``dashboard``, or ``gcs`` are system components.
```

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/cluster_page.png
    :align: center

Additionally, users can see a snapshot of hardware utilization from the :ref:`cluster page <dash-node-view>`, which provides an overview of resource usage across the entire Ray cluster.

.. _dash-workflow-resource-utilization:

> See the Resource Utilization

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Resource Utilization
```

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

Ray requires users to specify the number of :ref:`resources <logical-resources>` their tasks and actors will use through arguments such as ``num_cpus``, ``num_gpus``, ``memory``, and ``resource``. 
These values are used for scheduling, but may not always match the actual resource utilization (physical resource utilization).

- You can see the logical and physical resource utilization over time from the :ref:`Metrics View <dash-metrics-view>`.
- The snapshot of physical resource utilization (CPU, GPU, memory, disk, network) is also available from the :ref:`Cluster View <dash-node-view>`.

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/logical_resource.png
    :align: center

The :ref:`logical resources <logical-resources>` usage.

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/physical_resource.png
    :align: center

> The physical resourcecs (hardware) usage. Ray provides CPU, GPU, Memory, GRAM, disk, and network usage of each hardware in a cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The physical resourcecs (hardware) usage. Ray provides CPU, GPU, Memory, GRAM, disk, and network usage for each hardware in a cluster.
```

.. _dash-overview:

Overview
--------

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/overview-page.png
    :align: center

The overview page provides a high-level status of the Ray cluster.

**Overview Metrics**

> Overview metrics page provides the cluster-level hardware utilization and the autoscaling status (number of pending, active, and failed nodes).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Overview Metrics page provides the cluster-level hardware utilization and autoscaling status (number of pending, active, and failed nodes).
```

**Recent Jobs**

> Recent jobs card provides a list of recently submitted Ray jobs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Recent Jobs card provides a list of recently submitted Ray jobs.
```

**Event View**

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/event-page.png
    :align: center

> The event view lets you see a list of events associated with a specific type (e.g., autoscaler or job) in a chronological order. The equivalent information is also accessible via CLI commands ``ray list cluster-events`` :ref:`(Ray state APIs)<state-api-overview-ref>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Event View displays a list of events associated with a specific type (e.g., autoscaler or job) in chronological order. The same information is accessible with the ``ray list cluster-events`` :ref:`(Ray state APIs)<state-api-overview-ref>` CLI commands .
```

2 types of events are available.

- Job: Events related to :ref:`Ray job submission APIs <jobs-quickstart>`.

> - Autoscaler: Events related to :ref:`Ray autoscaler <cluster-autoscaler>`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Autoscaler: Events related to the :ref:`Ray autoscaler <cluster-autoscaler>`.
```

.. _dash-jobs-view:

Jobs View
---------

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/jobs.png
    :align: center

> The Jobs view lets you monitor the different jobs that ran on your Ray cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Jobs View lets you monitor the different jobs that ran on your Ray cluster.
```

A job is a ray workload that uses Ray APIs (e.g., ``ray.init``). It can be submitted directly (e.g., by executing a Python script within a head node) or via :ref:`Ray job API <jobs-quickstart>`.

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard/job_list.png
    :align: center

The job page displays a list of active, finished, and failed jobs, and clicking on an ID allows users to view detailed information about that job. 
For more information on Ray jobs, see the Ray Job Overview section.

Job Profiling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/profile-job.png
    :align: center

You can profile Ray jobs by clicking on the “Stack Trace” or “CPU Flame Graph” actions. See the :ref:`Dashboard Profiling <dashboard-profiling>` for more details.

.. _dash-workflow-job-progress:

> Advanced Task/Actor Breakdown

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Advanced Task and Actor Breakdown
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/advanced-progress.png
    :align: left

The job page allows you to see tasks and actors broken down by their states. 
Tasks and actors are grouped and nested by default. You can see the nested entries by clicking the expand button.

> Tasks/actors are grouped and nested by the following criteria.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Tasks and actors are grouped and nested by the following criteria.
```

- All tasks and actors are grouped together, and you can view individual entries by expanding the corresponding row.
- Tasks are grouped by their ``name`` attribute (e.g., ``task.options(name="<name_here>").remote()``).
- Child tasks (nested tasks) are nested under their parent task's row.
- Actors are grouped by their class name.
- Child actors (actors created within an actor) are nested under their parent actor's row.
- Actor tasks (remote methods within an actor) are nested under the actor for the corresponding actor method.

.. note:: 

>   Ray dashboard can only display/retrieve up to 10K tasks at a time. If there are more than 10K tasks from your job,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Ray dashboard can only display or retrieve up to 10K tasks at a time. If there are more than 10K tasks from your job,
```

    :align: center

First, you can download the chrome tracing file by clicking the download button.

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/profile_drag.png
    :align: center

Second, you can use tools like ``chrome://tracing`` or the `Perfetto UI <https://ui.perfetto.dev/>`_ and drop the downloaded chrome tracing file. We will use the Perfetto as it is the recommendation way to visualize chrome tracing files.

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/timeline.png
    :align: center

Now, you can see the timeline visualization of Ray tasks and actors. There are Node rows (hardware) and Worker rows (processes). 
Each worker rows display a list of events (e.g., task scheduled, task running, input/output deserialization, etc.) happening from that worker over time.

Ray Status
~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/ray-status.png
    :align: center

> The job page displays the output of the helpful CLI tool ``ray status``, which shows the autoscaler status of the Ray cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The job page displays the output of the CLI tool, ``ray status``, which shows the autoscaler status of the Ray cluster.
```

The left page shows the autoscaling status, including pending, active, and failed nodes. 

> The right page displays the cluster's demands, which lists demanded resources that cannot be scheduled to the cluster at the moment. This page is useful for debugging resource deadlocks or slow scheduling.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The right page displays the cluster's demands, which are resources that cannot be scheduled to the cluster at the moment. This page is useful for debugging resource deadlocks or slow scheduling.
```

.. note:: 

>   The output shows the aggregated information across the cluster (not by a job). If you run more than one job, some of the demands may come from other jobs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  The output shows the aggregated information across the cluster (not by job). If you run more than one job, some of the demands may come from other jobs.
```

.. _dash-workflow-state-apis:  

Task Table, Actor Table, Placement Group Table
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/tables.png
    :align: center

The dashboard shows a table with the status of the job's tasks, actors, and placement groups. 

> This information is the same as what you would get from the :ref:`Ray state APIs <state-api-overview-ref>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You get the same information from the :ref:`Ray state APIs <state-api-overview-ref>`.
```

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/task-table.png
    :align: center

> You can expand the collapse and see a list of each task, actor, and placement group.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can expand the table to see a list of each task, actor, and placement group.
```

.. _dash-node-view:

Cluster View
------------

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard/nodes-view-expand.png
    :align: center

The cluster view visualizes hierarchical relationship of
machines (nodes) and workers (processes). Each host consists of many workers, and

> you can see them by clicking the + button. This also shows the assignment of GPU resources to specific actors or tasks.

Reviewer: We will change "+" icon to arrow icons (> and down arrow) later but we can probably fix it after that.

The dashboard provides a visual representation of the system state, allowing users to track the performance 
of their applications and troubleshoot issues.

> .. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/overview_gif.gif

Reviewer: @rkooo567 The gif is a bit blurry. Can we get a higher-res one? I usually use tools like gif brewery 3

Author: Let me try again... Btw I think we should take some youtube videos eventually and use it instead of gif

Author: Hmm looks like gif brewery 3 is not available in Japan. Is there other apps you recommend?

Reviewer 4: Video sent in for you to take a look :) Let me know what edits you'd like to see or format you prefer.

These values are used for scheduling, but may not always match the actual resource utilization (physical resource utilization).

- You can see the logical and physical resource utilization over time from the :ref:`Metrics View <dash-metrics-view>`.
- The snapshot of physical resource utilization (CPU, GPU, memory, disk, network) is also available from the :ref:`Cluster View <dash-node-view>`.

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/logical_resource.png
    :align: center

The :ref:`logical resources <logical-resources>` usage.

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/physical_resource.png
    :align: center

The physical resourcecs (hardware) usage. Ray provides CPU, GPU, Memory, GRAM, disk, and network usage of each hardware in a cluster.

.. _dash-overview:

Overview
--------

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/overview-page.png
    :align: center

The overview page provides a high-level status of the Ray cluster.

Overview Metrics

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: It's a bit hard to differentiate the h2 and h3 headers.
Maybe just use bold body text for the 3 sub-titles?

Recent Jobs
~~~~~~~~~~~

Recent jobs card provides a list of recently submitted Ray jobs.

Event View
~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/event-page.png
    :align: center

The event view lets you see a list of events associated with a specific type (e.g., autoscaler or job) in a chronological order. The equivalent information is also accessible via CLI commands ``ray list cluster-events`` :ref:`(Ray state APIs)<state-api-overview-ref>`.

2 types of events are available.

- **Job**: Events related to :ref:`Ray job submission APIs <jobs-quickstart>`.
- **Autoscaler**: Events related to :ref:`Ray autoscaler <cluster-autoscaler>`

.. _dash-jobs-view:

Jobs View
---------

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/jobs.png
    :align: center

The Jobs view lets you monitor the different jobs that ran on your Ray cluster.

A job is a ray workload that uses Ray APIs (e.g., ``ray.init``). It can be submitted directly (e.g., by executing a Python script within a head node) or via :ref:`Ray job API <jobs-quickstart>`.

> .. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/job_list.png

Reviewer: This one is not rendered correctly in the built doc.

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/timeline.png
    :align: center

Now, you can see the timeline visualization of Ray tasks and actors. There are Node rows (hardware) and Worker rows (processes). 
Each worker rows display a list of events (e.g., task scheduled, task running, input/output deserialization, etc.) happening from that worker over time.

Ray Status
~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/ray-status.png
    :align: center

The job page displays the output of the helpful CLI tool ``ray status``, which shows the autoscaler status of the Ray cluster.

The left page shows the autoscaling status, including pending, active, and failed nodes. 
The right page displays the cluster's demands, which lists demanded resources that cannot be scheduled to the cluster at the moment. This page is useful for debugging resource deadlocks or slow scheduling.

.. note:: 

>   The output shows the aggregated information across the cluster. If you run more than one job, the demands could be wrong.

Reviewer: Instead of saying it's "wrong", maybe we should say something like "some of the demands may come from other jobs."

.. _dash-metrics-view:

Metrics View
------------

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard/metrics.png
    :align: center

Ray exports default metrics which are available from the :ref:`Metrics View <dash-metrics-view>`. Here are some available example metrics.

- The tasks, actors, and placement groups broken down by states.
- The :ref:`logical resource usage <logical-resources>` across nodes.
- The hardware resource usage across nodes.
- The autoscaler status.

See :ref:`System Metrics Page <system-metrics>` for available metrics.

.. note:: 

  The metrics view required the Prometheus and Grafana setup. See :ref:`Ray Metrics <ray-metrics>` to learn how to set up Prometheus and Grafana.

The metrics view lets you view visualizations of the time series metrics emitted by Ray.

You can select the time range of the metrics in the top right corner. The graphs refresh automatically every 15 seconds.

There is also a convenient button to open the grafana UI from the dashboard. The Grafana UI provides additional customizability of the charts.

.. _dash-logs-view:

> Logs view

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Logs View
```

---------

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard/logs.png
    :align: center

The logs view lets you view all the ray logs that are in your cluster. It is organized by node and log file name. Many log links in the other pages will link to this view and filter the list so the relevant logs appear.

> To learn the log file structure of Ray, see the :ref:`Logging directory structure page <logging-directory-structure>`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To understand the log file structure of Ray, see the :ref:`Logging directory structure page <logging-directory-structure>`
```

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard/logs-content.png
    :align: center

> The log viewer provides various search functionality to help find the log messages you are looking for.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The logs view provides search functionality for you to find specific log messages.
```

Advanced Usage
--------------

> Change the dashboard ports

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Changing Dashboard Ports
```

> Change the dashboard ports

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Changing dashboard ports
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. tabbed:: CLI

>   If you need to customize the port on which the dashboard will run, you can pass

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  If you need to customize the port on which the dashboard runs, you can pass
```

  the ``--dashboard-port`` argument with ``ray start`` in the command line.

.. tabbed:: Python

>   If you need to customize the port on which the dashboard will run, you can pass the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  If you need to customize the port on which the dashboard runs, you can pass the
```

  keyword argument ``dashboard_port`` in your call to ``ray.init()``.

.. tabbed:: VM Cluster Launcher

>   To customize the dashboard port while using the "VM cluster launcher", simply include the "ray start --head --dashboard-port" argument 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  To customize the dashboard port while using the "VM cluster launcher", include the "ray start --head --dashboard-port" argument.
```

  and specify the desired port number in the "head_start_ray_commands" section of the `cluster launcher's YAML file <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/0574620d454952556fa1befc7694353d68c72049/python/ray/autoscaler/aws/example-full.yaml#L172>`_.

.. tabbed:: Kubernetes

  See the `Specifying non-default ports <https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/cluster/kubernetes/user-guides/config.html#specifying-non-default-ports>`_ page.

Viewing built-in dashboard API metrics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The dashboard is powered by a server that serves both the UI code and the data about the cluster via API endpoints.

> There are basic prometheus metrics that are emitted for each of these API endpoints:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are basic Prometheus metrics that are emitted for each of these API endpoints:
```

Actor Detail Page
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/actor-list-id.png
    :align: center

By clicking the ID, you can also see the detail view of the actor. 

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard-v2/dashboard-pics/actor-detail.png
    :align: center

From the actor detail page, you can see the metadata, state, and the all tasks that have run from this actor. 

.. _dash-metrics-view:

Metrics View
------------

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard/metrics.png
    :align: center

Ray exports default metrics which are available from the :ref:`Metrics View <dash-metrics-view>`. Here are some available example metrics.

- The tasks, actors, and placement groups broken down by states.
- The :ref:`logical resource usage <logical-resources>` across nodes.
- The hardware resource usage across nodes.
- The autoscaler status.

See :ref:`System Metrics Page <system-metrics>` for available metrics.

.. note:: 

>   The metrics view required the Prometheus and Grafana setup. **See :ref:`Ray Metrics <ray-metrics>` to learn how to set up Prometheus and Grafana**.

Reviewer: This link is not rendered correctly in the built doc.

The metrics view lets you view visualizations of the time series metrics emitted by Ray.

You can select the time range of the metrics in the top right corner. The graphs refresh automatically every 15 seconds.

There is also a convenient button to open the grafana UI from the dashboard. The Grafana UI provides additional customizability of the charts.

.. _dash-logs-view:

Logs view
---------

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard/logs.png
    :align: center

> The logs view lets you view all the ray logs that are in your cluster. It is organized by node and log file name. Many log links in the other pages will link to this view and filter the list so the relevant logs appear.

Reviewer: Can we add a link to the logging structure in the ray logging documentation? One platform user didn't check out the logging structure page and had no idea how to persist the right log files for the right end users. Adding a link here may help users find it.

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/Images/master/docs/new-dashboard/logs-content.png
    :align: center

The log viewer provides various search functionality to help find the log messages you are looking for.

Advanced Usage
--------------

> Change the dashboard ports

Reviewer: The names of the tabs might lead to confusion. The options are not mutually exclusive.
What if people use "CLI" and "VM launcher" together?

To me, it should be:
- SIngle-node local cluster
- VM cluster launcher
- KubeRay

Author: Hmm this seems fine. The VM cluster launcher explanation already includes the sufficient information.

Reviewer: No. It doesn't really make sense. For example, users might try the following instruction under the `python` tab when they use VM cluster launcher or kuberay. Neither of it will work.
> you can pass the keyword argument dashboard_port in your call to ray.init()

Author: So, your suggestion is to use SIngle-node local cluster and write both ray.init() & ray start examples in there right? that sounds reasonable.

Reviewer: Yep. Basically, these are the two ways of creating a single-node local cluster

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. tabbed:: CLI

  If you need to customize the port on which the dashboard will run, you can pass
  the ``--dashboard-port`` argument with ``ray start`` in the command line.

.. tabbed:: Python

  If you need to customize the port on which the dashboard will run, you can pass the
  keyword argument ``dashboard_port`` in your call to ``ray.init()``.

.. tabbed:: VM Cluster Launcher

  To customize the dashboard port while using the "VM cluster launcher", simply include the "ray start --head --dashboard-port" argument 
  and specify the desired port number in the "head_start_ray_commands" section of the `cluster launcher's YAML file <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/0574620d454952556fa1befc7694353d68c72049/python/ray/autoscaler/aws/example-full.yaml#L172>`_.

> .. tabbed:: Kubernetes

Reviewer: let's use "KubeRay" to avoid possible confusion? Some people may try to deploy ray on k8s without kuberay

Author: I believe this option is available for both kuberay and regular k8s deployment. cc @kevin85421 for confirmation

Reviewer: I guess the question here is not about whether it works on general k8s deployment. Instead, it's about what we encourage users to use. We want to emphasize 3 officially recommended ways to deploy a cluster:
- a local head-node-only cluster
- vm launcher
- kubeRay

        [[http.services.dashboard.loadBalancer.servers]]
          url = "http://localhost:8265"

> How to disable the dashboard

Reviewer: Same as above, we should either show how to do it in both vm and kuberay here or send users to the dashboard section under the ray cluster documentation where we list all different ways to do it.

Author: done. But idk how to do it in k8s. do you know who I should follow up with?

Reviewer: cc: @kevin85421 or @architkulkarni ?

        [[http.services.dashboard.loadBalancer.servers]]
          url = "http://localhost:8265"

> How to disable the dashboard

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Disabling the Dashboard
```

> How to disable the dashboard

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Disabling the dashboard
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Dashboard is included in the `ray[default]` installation by default and automatically started.

To disable the dashboard, use the following arguments `--include-dashboard`.

.. tabbed:: CLI

    .. code-block:: bash

        ray start --include-dashboard=False

.. tabbed:: Python

    .. code-block:: python

        ray.init(include_dashboard=False)

.. tabbed:: VM Cluster Launcher

>   To disable the dashboard while using the "VM cluster launcher", simply include the "ray start --head --include-dashboard=False" argument 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  To disable the dashboard while using the "VM cluster launcher", include the "ray start --head --include-dashboard=False" argument 
```

>   To disable the dashboard while using the "VM cluster launcher", simply include the "ray start --head --include-dashboard=False" argument 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  To disable the dashboard while using the "VM cluster launcher", include the "ray start --head --include-dashboard=False" argument 
```

        [[http.services.dashboard.loadBalancer.servers]]
          url = "http://localhost:8265"

How to disable the dashboard
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Dashboard is included in the `ray[default]` installation by default and automatically started.

> To disable the dashboard, use the following arguments `--include-dashboard`.

Reviewer: Same question as above.

> Logs

Reviewer: "Logging structure"?
Maybe we should combine it with the other sections ("the guide for viewing application logs" and the "logs view").

Author: it's the reference page. I think I will just remove all the reference page later (we should just comment it within the UI)

Author: For now, I will just delete it as it is not that useful

  * - **CPU Flame Graph**
    - Get a CPU flame graph for the specified actor. Refer to :ref:`dashboard-profiling` for more information.

Resources
---------
- `Ray Summit observability talk <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v_JzurOkdVQ>`_
- `Ray metrics blog <https://www.anyscale.com/blog/monitoring-and-debugging-ray-workloads-ray-metrics>`_

> - `Ray dashboard roadmap <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/issues/30097#issuecomment-1445756658>`_

Reviewer 4: Can we add the Observability Training Module here too? https://github.com/ray-project/ray-educational-materials/blob/main/Observability/Ray_observability_part_1.ipynb
